hello and welcome back to the gcp


mindset Channel today we'll talk about












data management and clinical research


more after the intro



























welcome to the gcp mindset Channel and


all topics on clinical research


Welcome to our new video where today we




























will delve into the fascinating world
data management in clinical research in
this fast-paced era of technological
advancements data management plays an
increasingly crucial role in various
Fields with clinical research being no
exception
the aim of this video is to provide
beginners in clinical research
particularly budding clinical research
Associates with a basic understanding of
what data management entails and why it
is so vital in clinical research
let us start with understanding clinical
research
clinical research is a branch of Medical
Science that determines the safety and
effectiveness of medications devices
diagnostic products and treatment
regimens intended for human use it plays
a significant role in preventing
diagnosing and treating diseases
many roles are involved in clinical
research however our Focus today will be
on the role of the clinical research
associate a pivotal figure in ensuring
the successful execution of any clinical
research project
but what is the role of a clinical
research associate
as a clinical research associate you are
essentially the backbone of any clinical

research project your responsibilities

Encompass everything from planning and

setting up the study to monitoring its

progress and ensuring that all

procedures are followed correctly

however one of the most critical aspects

of your role as a clinical research

associate is data management the

accuracy and reliability of the study's

findings rest heavily on how well you

manage the collected data

what is data management and clinical

research

data management in clinical research

refers to the process of collecting

storing retrieving and preserving data

generated from clinical trials it is

pivotal to ensuring that the data is

accurate consistent and reliable
